# Getting Started



## Introduction

iCloud3 is a device tracker that tracks your iPhones, iPads, Apple Watches, AirPods and other Apple devices. It requests location data from Apple's iCloud  Location Services and monitors various triggers sent from the Home Assistant Companion App (iOS App) to Home Assistant. It uses this information to report the device's location, distance from zones, and travel time to zones. It's sensors and other entities can be used to trigger automations based on this location data. 

Home Assistant has it's own official iCloud component. This was used for the initial inspiration for the development of iCloud3, however, iCloud3 goes far beyond the capabilities of the iCloud component. The important highlights include:

- Track devices from those in your Family Sharing list, from those that are sharing their location with you using the FindMy App and those that have the iOS App installed.
- Actively track a device (request a device's location) 
- Passively monitor a device (do not request the location but use it if it is available after another tracked device requests theirs).
- Use the Waze Route Service to determine the travel time and distance to a zone. 
- Provide easy-to-use presence detection that does not rely on any other program, other than Home Assistant and the Home Assistant IOS app.
- Report accurate information, i.e. current zone, location, distance from a zone and travel time on a timely basis that can be used reliably in automations and scripts.
- Track from multiple zones (e.g., Home, Office, Cabin)
- Correct GPS wandering errors leading to incorrect triggering of automations.
- Provide more distance, travel time, and zone attributes than the base iCloud component and to create sensors for many of the attributes that easily display device information on Lovelace cards.
- Monitor the iOS App for zone and location changes.
- Display activity on the iCloud3 Event Log custom Lovelace card.



## Topics in this Chapter

This chapter provides general information about iCloud3 that will help you how to install, configure and use iCloud3. It covers:

- iCloud3 and the iOS App - How they work together to provide accurate location information
- iCloud3 Components - The iCloud3 custom component, the Event Log, the iCloud3 Configurator.
- Tracking methods used by iCloud3 - Family Sharing devices, Find-my-Friends devices, iOS App devices.
- Using the iCloud3 Configurator - The menus and screens used to configure iCloud3 and it's devices.
- Apple iCloud account - Configuring the username & password.
- Authentication Process - Entering the 6-digit verification code.
- Event Log - Information displayed when iCloud3 starts, the *Actions* dropdown commands.
- The sensors and device_tracker entities created by iCloud3,

The next chapter describes how to install iCloud3, the iOS App and the Event Log. It also explains how to configure iCloud3 for the first time and helps you get up nd running.



------

## The iCloud Account and the iOS App

#### iCloud Account

iCloud3 uses the iCloud Location Service to locate your devices (iPhone, iPad, etc). It provides location information for the devices you are tracking using two methods:

- The family members in the Family Sharing List on your iCloud account (*Family Sharing* or *FamShr*).
- The people (friends) you have added to the FindMy app (*Find-my-Friends* or *FmF*).

 iCloud3 selects the most efficient method to use for each device you are tracking based in how you set up the device parameters and how the location information is returned from iCloud Location Services. 

*Note:* The following documentation will refer to the iPhone (phone) as the device being tracked although it could also refer to a iPad, Apple Watch or other trackable devices.

#### Home Assistant Companion iOS App (iOS App)

The iOS App can be installed on iPhones, iPads and Apple Watches and monitors the device's location and the zone it is currently in (or not in). It will:

- Change the phone's device_tracker entity state and issue a Zone Enter/Exit trigger when it enters or exits a zone.
- Issue location triggers on a regular basis and when there has been a significant location change.  iCloud3 monitors the iOS App device_tracker state for zone and location changes every 5-seconds. 

The HA Proximity component also determines distance between zones and the iPhone, determines direction of travel, and other device_tracker related functions. Unfortunately, the iOS App can report old location information that is processed by the HA proximity component leading to GPS wandering and incorrect zone exits.

!> Do not use the proximity component when using iCloud3. iCloud3 duplicates the proximity functions and discards bad location information where the proximity component does not. 

!>You do not need OwnTracks or other location based trackers and you do not need Nmap, netgear, ping or other network monitors.

